docs: improve advanced chunks (#4966)
rolldown-rs/rolldown: docs/guide/in-depth/advanced-chunks.md

# Advanced Chunks

> `AdvancedChunks` is a powerful feature that allows you to do `manual chunking` against the `automatic chunking` done by [code splitting](./code-splitting.md). This is useful when you want to optimize the loading performance of your application by splitting it into smaller, more manageable pieces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AdvancedChunks` is a powerful feature that allows you to do `manual chunking` to complement the `automatic chunking` done by [code splitting](./code-splitting.md). This is useful when you want to optimize the loading performance of your application by splitting it into smaller, more manageable pieces.
```
Since using `manual chunking` does not disable `automatic chunking`, I think "against" is not a correct word here.

## How to use `advancedChunks`?

Let's take a look at the following example:

```jsx
// index.jsx
import * as ReactDom from 'react-dom';
import App from './App.jsx';

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <App />,
);

// App.jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from 'ui-lib';

export default function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}
```

and you get the following output:

```js [output-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
'React library code';

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
'UI library code';

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
'ReactDOM library code';

// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<App />);
```

In this example,

- We used 3 libraries: `react`, `react-dom`, and `ui-lib`.
- `output-hash0.js` is the output file generated by Rolldown.
- `hash0` is the hash of the output file, it changes if the content of the file changes.

### Reduce cache invalidation

> Let's talk about cache invalidation first. Cache invalidation here means that when you deploy a new version of your application, the browser will need to download the new version of the file. If the file is large, this can lead to a poor user experience.

Reviewer: I think we need to mention the `Cache-Control` header somewhere as we assume that is set.

Author: Maybe. That will make this guide more academic. I assume people whoe read this have this kind of knowledge. But definitely it's possitive to add such information.

> For example, you change the `app.jsx` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you change the `app.jsx` file:
```

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

> and naturally, you get a `output-hash1.js` file with the same content as `output-hash0.js`, except the `App` function is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then naturally, you get a `output-hash1.js` file with the same content as `output-hash0.js`, except for the change in the `App` function.
```

Now, if you deploy this new version of your application, the browser will need to download the entire `output-hash1.js` file, even though only a small part of it has changed. This is because the hash of the file has changed, and the browser will treat it as a new file.

> To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split output libraries into separate chunks, because they don't change frequently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, we can use `advancedChunks` to split output libraries into separate chunks, because they don't change frequently compared to application code.
```

```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

For example, after you change the `app.jsx` file

```jsx [app.jsx]
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!')} />; // [!code --]
  return <Button onClick={() => alert('Button clicked!!!')} />; // [!code ++]
}
```

you will get output like this:

:::code-group

```js [output-hash1.js]
import ... from './libs-hash0.js';
// App.js
function App() {
  return <Button onClick={() => alert("Button clicked!!!")} />;
}

// index.js

ReactDom.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")).render(<App />);
```

```js [libs-hash0.js]
// node_modules/react/index.js
"React library code";

// node_modules/ui-lib/index.js
"UI library code";

// node_modules/react-dom/index.js
"ReactDOM library code";

export { ... };
```

:::

- The `libs-hash0.js` file is not changed, so the browser can use the cached version of the file.
- The `output-hash1.js` file is changed, so the browser will download the new version of the file.

> 

Reviewer: It may be worth adding a note that using a function that was tree-shaken in the previous bundle will invalidate the library chunk.

Author: Yes. Real-world case might be complicated. I'll add warning here.

`second.js` tries to call `__esm` function before it gets initialized. This will lead to a runtime error which is trying to call `undefined` as a function.

With forcefully generated `runtime.js`, the bundler ensures any chunk that depends on runtime code would first load `runtime.js` before executing itself. This guarantees that the runtime code is always executed before any other chunks, preventing circular import issues.

### Why the dependencies of the captured module get captured too?

> When a module is captured by a group, rolldown will try to capture its dependencies recursively. This is because rolldown is only allowed to mangling exports of non-entry chunks by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a module is captured by a group, Rolldown will try to capture its dependencies recursively. This is because Rolldown is only allowed to mangle the exports of non-entry chunks by default.
```

For example, if you have the following code:

```js
// entry.js
import { value } from './a.js';

console.log(value);

export const foo = 'foo';

// a.js
import { value as valueB } from './b.js';
export const value = 'a' + valueB;

// b.js
export const value = 'b';
```

> Let's say we want to move the `a.js` module into a separate chunk with keeping the `b.js` in the same chunk as `entry.js`. We get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we want to move the `a.js` module into a separate chunk while keeping the `b.js` module in the same chunk as `entry.js`. We get
```

:::code-group

```js [entry.js]
import { value } from './a.js';

// b.js
const value = 'b';

// entry.js
const foo = 'foo';
console.log(value);

export { foo, value };
```

```js [a.js]
import { value } from './entry.js';

// a.js
export const value = 'a' + value;
```

:::

You could see, to make `a.js` work, we have to change the export signature of the entry chunk `entry.js` and add an additional export `value`. This totally violates the original intention of the code, which is to only export `foo` from `entry.js`.

> Fortunately, rolldown supports [`InputOptions.preserveEntrySignatures: 'allow-extension'`](/reference/config-options#preserveentrysignatures) to let you inform the bundler that it is allowed to change the export signature of the entry chunk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, Rolldown supports [`InputOptions.preserveEntrySignatures: 'allow-extension'`](/reference/config-options#preserveentrysignatures) to let you inform the bundler that it is allowed to change the export signature of the entry chunk.
```

> Enabling [`InputOptions.preserveEntrySignatures: 'allow-extension'`](/reference/config-options#preserveentrysignatures) will prevent the bundler from capturing the dependencies of the captured module.

Reviewer: Just to confirm, advanced chunks cannot solve "hash cascading problem", right?

Author: Yeah. If I understand you correctly, it should be solved by future `importmap` support.
